+++
draft = false
title = "7DRL 2022"
date = 2022-03-16T09:12:08Z
+++

The [7DRL](https://7drl.com), or 7 Day Roguelike Challenge, is a yearly one
week long event where you build a game. A [roguelike][rl].

It's been around for quite a few years and while I'm not actively seeking out
roguelikes to play very often, I like the concept and have played a few of the
better known ones over the years. I'm also really bad at them, but I thought
it might be fun to actually build one for a change. I like that it's scoped to
one week and then you can call it done, or revisit later to expand.

From the start it was pretty clear that I wanted to build it for the browser,
just to ease testing and have less friction for people to play it at all. I am
not familiar with any proper game engine or with game development in general,
so my reasoning was that I would not miss out on awesome graphics or advanced
features, so browser sounded perfect. At the start I took a very brief look at
how I could convert/export a [LÖVE][love] game to the browser (because I made
two very basic simple games with it in the past and I because I like Lua) and
also grabbed a copy of Godot, but in the end decided to stick with
[rot.js][rotjs], which was linked on the 7DRL page - and it's actually
fantastic for this.

So, after a failed attempt at making a board game representation on the
computer some 15 years ago with my wife, this was our second attempt at
working together on a game. Before the game jam started, we brainstormed
about the setting and gameplay for a bit - the only thing that was clear was
that we didn't want to make a basic dungeon crawler, like a typical clone of
the actual game 'Rogue'.

In the end we settled on a fishing theme, with you, the protagonist, being
represented by a boat, going around a map on water, and fishing. My part would
be all the code (and some design decisions), my wife was going to do the
artwork and most of the game systems and formulas. I had taken most of the
week off from work anyway so it's hard to put down how many hours we worked
on it - we used the full 7 days, but took long breaks during the day or just
worked for a few hours on some days. Maybe 40 hours per person, I don't know.


[rl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roguelike
[love]: https://love2d.org/
[rotjs]: http://ondras.github.io/rot.js/hp/
